README.md, before:

# Ford GoBike System Data exploration 
> This simple analysis will explore data of the Ford GoBike System Data. We will use descriptive statistics and visualization in order to draw some useful information about this dataset. This project is created for Udacity Data Analyst NanoDegree Programme.


## About the dataset

Bike sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of obtaining membership, rental, and bike return is automated via a network of kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able rent a bike from a one location and return it to a different place.



## Exploratory data analysis (EDA)
One may find the exploratory data analysis in the following file:
```sh
Exploratory _Ford_GoBike.ipynb
```
In order to analyze bike rental system, basic statistical tools and visualisations have been used. In order to properly use training dataset, initial Exploratory Data Analysis(EDA) was carried out.
It allowed to learn more about the dataset and explore different features. 

## Explanatory data analysis
One may find the explanatory data analysis in the following file:
```sh
explanatory_Ford_GoBike.ipynb
```
The EDA phase was followed by the explanatory data analysis consisting of the features engineering process. It allowed to draw several useful insights about the dataset and give some general recomondations regarding the usage of the system.


## Used resources
   *  https://www.udacity.com Data Analyst Nanodegree programme,
   *  https://towardsdatascience.com/heres-how-to-calculate-distance-between-2-geolocations-in-python-93ecab5bbba4
   * https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47850202/plotting-a-histogram-on-a-log-scale-with-matplotlib
   * https://www.geeksforgeeks.org
   
## Author
Teodor Wisniewski

Commit message:

readme adding comment about the presentation

README.md, after:

# Ford GoBike System Data exploration 
> This simple analysis will explore data of the Ford GoBike System Data. We will use descriptive statistics and visualization in order to draw some useful information about this dataset. This project is created for Udacity Data Analyst NanoDegree Programme.


## About the dataset

Bike sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of obtaining membership, rental, and bike return is automated via a network of kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able rent a bike from a one location and return it to a different place.



## Exploratory data analysis (EDA)
One may find the exploratory data analysis in the following file:
```sh
Exploratory _Ford_GoBike.ipynb
```
In order to analyze bike rental system, basic statistical tools and visualisations have been used. In order to properly use training dataset, initial Exploratory Data Analysis(EDA) was carried out.
It allowed to learn more about the dataset and explore different features. 

## Explanatory data analysis
One may find the explanatory data analysis in the following file:
```sh
explanatory_Ford_GoBike.ipynb
```
The EDA phase was followed by the explanatory data analysis consisting of the features engineering process. It allowed to draw several useful insights about the dataset and give some general recomondations regarding the usage of the system.

## Presentation
We can find the presentation and key insights in the following file:
```sh
explanatory_Ford_GoBike.slides.html
```


## Used resources
   *  https://www.udacity.com Data Analyst Nanodegree programme,
   *  https://towardsdatascience.com/heres-how-to-calculate-distance-between-2-geolocations-in-python-93ecab5bbba4
   * https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47850202/plotting-a-histogram-on-a-log-scale-with-matplotlib
   * https://www.geeksforgeeks.org
   
## Author
Teodor Wisniewski
